In this lesson, we will create an actor
that will damage our character. The actor will deal radial damage.
This logic will simulate a grenade explosion next to our character.
In the content browser, go to the folder with our classes. We create a new C ++ class. Select actor.
Let's create an additional folder for the development content, let's just call it dev.
Let's give our actor a name. We name it STUDevDamageAactor and click on create class.
If the project did not compile when adding a new directory, then in the build file we specify the path
to the dev folder in PublicIncludePaths. Go to the BaseCharacter. Let's remove the line from TakeDamage.
We will no longer harm ourselves and start working with dev damage actor.
The first thing we will do is add a SceneComponent to our actor,
so that it has a transformation and we can freely move it around the scene.
The first thing we will do is visualize a sphere that will simulate an explosion.
Let's include the header file, which contains the functions that help to draw graphic primitives.
Including the sphere. The header file is called DrawDebugHelpers. We will draw our sphere
every frame, for this we go to the Tick function and call the DrawDebugSphere function.
The first parameter to this function is a pointer to world. Let's use the GetWorld function. The next parameter is the center of the sphere.
We will draw it in the place where the actor is, so we will use the GetActorLocation function.
Next, you need to specify the radius of the sphere. We'll create this variable a little later.
The next parameter is the number of sphere segments - the tessellation parameter.
We put any number here, the main thing is that it is visually clear that this is a sphere.
The next argument is the color of the sphere. Let's also create a variable. Let's call it SphereColor and leave the
rest of the parameters as default. Go to the .h file. Let's create a property for the Radius and SphereColor.
Copy the UPROPERTY macro.
Let's make these properties with the EditAnywhere specifier so that we can edit them anywhere.
The radius is of the float type, let's put some number, for example, 300 and the color of the sphere is of the FColor type.
And let it be red by default.
Let's see how it looks in the editor. Compile.
So we have a compilation error. We've forgotten something. We have written world with a small letter. Let's compile one more time.
Go to our classes, to the dev folder and drop the dev damage actor onto the stage. Let's give it some position in space.
Checking the parameters: radius - 300, color - red and let's throw out one more actor.
Put it in another place and, for example, change the color to blue. Let the radius be 500. Launch the project.
Each frame we draw spheres. Now we need to make it so that when actor
gets inside these spherical volumes, the number of his lives begins to decrease.
We start off by including the GameplayStatics file on top of our dev damage actor.
We already used this class when we got all the actors from the stage - Kismet / GameplayStatics.h
We will cause damage in the Tick function, that is, every frame.
We write: UGameplayStatics and let's see what functions there are in this class. Enter: Apply.
We have several ways to damage an actor: ApplyDamage, ApplyPointDamage
and ApplyRadialDamage. In the first two functions, we need to know the pointer to the actor
we want to harm. We haven’t gone through collisions yet, so we can implement the logic of
calculating the actor that is in the sphere and will use the ApplyRadialDamage function.
Inside it, this logic has already been implemented and damage will be done to all
actors who are in the model sphere. Let's see what arguments
this function has. The first is the world contex object. We pass the GetWorld pointer there.
Further, BaseDamage is directly a quantitative characteristic of damage. Let's pass the Damage variable there, which we'll
create a little later. The next variable is the center of the damage sphere. We also pass GetActorLocation there.
Next comes the radius of the sphere. We have already created this variable. We pass Radius. The next parameter is the
type of damage. We can pass a null pointer. We'll look at DamageType a little later.
Now we are not interested in him. Next comes the IgnoreActors array. We can specify the actors that we do not want to harm.
given damage. We pass in an empty array. We want to harm all actors in the affected area.
Next up is DamageCauser, which is the actor who causes damage. This is ourselves,
so we pass the this pointer. The next parameter is the controller. You and I can pass nulltpr,
because our actor is not a pawn or a character. It is not controlled by anyone. The penultimate variable
is called DoFullDamage. Let's also make it property. This variable is responsible for
how the radial damage data will be damaged. If this variable is set to true,
then no matter what point on the sphere we are, we will receive full damage.
If the variable is false, then we will receive full damage only in the center of the sphere,
in the epicenter, and the further we are from the center, the less damage we will receive. That is, the value
will be interpolated along the radius. The last argument relates to collisions. We'll leave it at the default.
This parameter allows you to control how damage will be done if there
are any other objects between our character and the epicenter of the explosion. We can make it so
that under the given circumstances damage is ignored for our character.
Go to the .h file. Let's create the missing variables. The first variable is Damage, it is also float.
Post it some small value, let it be 10. The second variable is of type boolean - DoFullDamage.
Set the default to false and check in the editor what changes if we change the value to true.
Let's fall inside the ApplyRadialDamage function. Press f12 on this function.
In fact, this function is a wrapper with a slight change over the player's ApplyRadialDamageWithFalloff function.
Two main points let's look at what happens inside this function. It is not necessary to understand a lot of the code here.
The essence is important to us. The first moment: all the actors are found that are overlapped by the
sphere with our passed parameters. The OverlapMultiByObjectType function is responsible for this.
And the second point: we iterate over all the found actors and call the TakeDamage function
on each of them , which we went through in the previous lesson. The details of the function are
not so important to us, these two points are important in order to understand what this function actually does.
Let's log the damage that comes to our actor in the health component in order to better understand the numbers.
We create a local logging category in the health component.
And in the OnTakeAnyDamage function we log the value of the Damage variable.
All is ready. We compile the project.
Let's set an actor that has full damage blue to true. We open the log.
So, let's get into the blue sphere and in the log we see that damage = 10 comes
regardless of where we are on the sphere. We fall into the red sphere
and see that the damage changes depending on how close we are to the
center of the sphere. The center of the sphere is somewhere higher, so we don't get the top ten, but the essence is clear.
Let's check with several characters in the scene.
Let's pull another character onto the stage so that he is in the sphere.
And we see that all the actors, all the characters that are in the sphere, take damage.